---
layout: post
title: "Pick Me"
description: Slowing the growth of my TBR
date: 2026-02-07 12:00:00
tags: books, llm
---

## Pick Me: Slowing the growth of my TBR

Every time I go to a bookstore, I pick up five different books. But which one will I like the most? This project will help me responsibly slow the growth of my TBR stack by estimating the rating I would give each book, using my own reading history as a data source.

NOTE: sign ups are disabled to keep my costs down ;) 

## Learning Goals
- Create a new project from scratch, no templates
- Lean heavily on coding assistants, in particular Every's [compound learning](https://github.com/EveryInc/compound-engineering-plugin/) Claude plugin
- Create a web-accessible site to solve a real problem I have

## Links
- [Repo](https://github.com/Cool-Dad-Productions/pick-me)
- [Site](https://pick-me.cooldad.computer/)

## Stack/Tooling
- ChatGPT for initial project plan
- Every's Compound Engineering plugin
- V0 for UX design and iterations
- Claude Code VSCode plugin
- Postgres (hosted on Neon)
- Vercel for deploys and hosting
- Typescript 
- Next.js for routing (front and backend)
- ngrok for local tunneling, used for local mobile testing
- OpenLibrary for most book data
- Google Books for additional book data

## Main Takeaways

The compound engineering plugin is token hungry, but I'm very impressed by the thoroughness of it's planning capabilities.

The key skill of a software developer is expressing intent.

Curiosity will increasingly become the key quality that helps engineers grow in their career.

## Reflections

The goal here was to lean very heavily on coding assistants, tools, and workflows. This is a primary area of learning for me as it's the main landscape that has changed since I was a full time coder. I want to push these tools to find the edges: what works, what breaks, what is less than ideal. Knowing this will help me know where and when to do things manually versus relying on an agent or assistant.

The power of V0 was amazing! I used Claude to build a scaffold app and get the API in place. This is possibly a backwards workflow for V0, but I wasn't unhappy with the result. I used Claude for meta prompting the prompt for V0 one a skeleton app was created. This helped me keep a clean API interface. I did some tweaking in V0, but the initial app was very close to what I wanted. I was literally able to copy and paste the UI files into my code base. I had Claude go page by page to integrate the API. Once a UI paradigm had been established, it was easy to add new features in line with the style from Claude without having to go back to V0.

I heavily used on Every's [compound learning](https://github.com/EveryInc/compound-engineering-plugin/) Claude plugin. While the plugin could be activated manually through slash commanes, I found it difficult to remember the precise order of steps through the various parts of the workflow. Probably ok with practice. I found that if I instruct Claude to use the plugin, it will choose the right step in the workflow, I don't have to remember the order of invocation. However, I did find I would have to prompt it to record learnings. I do wish this were more automatic in this workflow.

I found the idea of putting 80% of effort into planning did seem to pay off. One issue with AI Agents is they suffer from the same pliancy and author validating that all AI falls victim to. This lead me to make some bad decisions that it gladly went along with and that needed to be unwound later. I found the most success (as in leading any project) when I outline the outcomes and constraints and let Claude do the research. This is why I think the key skill is expressing intent, whether to a compiler, an AI agent, or a future human reader. Clearer intent always leads to better solutions over time.

There were some clear drawbacks. A planning-focused workflow seems more token hungry than a code-focused workflow. This makes sense given the amount of output tokens produced in a doc vs most code changes. I would assume the development quality is better with a planning heavy workflow, but I found myself aggressively monitoring my token usage and planning my development time around usage reset times. I think this is a time to leverage multiple sources: for example, use ChatGPT to define the problem and scope best practices, before moving to Claude to define specific implementation. 

I also found that offloading so much work to a coding agent made me blindly trust the agent perhaps too much. Granted this is a personal project, but it was all too easy to rubber stamp a PR without inspecting what was written and testing the behavior. This is a source of human error we need to watch out for as engineers. Too much trust in any sort of automation leads to less system knowledge by the operator, which leads to a less safe and resilient system. Our human creativity and curiosity, along with a healthy skepticism, need to brought to reviewing every change. In general, I had a rule that the author shouldn't review their own code. I think a new rule in a similar spirit should be applied: you should't review any change you prompted. In both cases, your assumptions and blindspots are baked into the intent you express.

I find lots of approvals are required for long sessions. It is tempting to grant ever greater control to an agent, but the part of me that's worked with compliance requirements in enterprise systems shudders. This is the next level of "should we give devs access to the prod DB."

In the end, I built what I was after. The biggest hurdle was (and will continue to be) data! I couldn't find good sources of book genres and themes (at least for free). I settled on a manual AI workflow: I added "community" tags to the data model, then used a custom GPT to annotate books with tags before I uploaded the data. This was essentially a manual AI enrichment pipeline: export my books from goodreads, batch those into 20 rows at a time, upload those to a custom GPT for annotating, download the results, then upload those into Pick Me. Not a scalable solution, but good enough for a hobby. I may come back to this though and explore more interesting data pipelines, even vector encoding and ANN search capabilities.